I've been using GPD5 for the past couple
days and I wanted to test whether GPD5
is actually an improvement on the
current models for writing YouTube
scripts and just writing in general. And
today I want to compare writing scripts
using GPD 5.0, Claude Sonnet 4 and
Notebook LM. Notebook LM and Claude
being the two models that have stood out
in terms of creative writing. So, first
I'll write an educational script. And
then we'll do the same for a documentary
script to test all types of videos. And
to be on equal playing ground, I want to
give these tree models training data on
what a good YouTube script looks like.
So, I downloaded the transcript of my
full YouTube script writing course that
got over 250,000 views and uploaded it
into each model for training. Let's
start writing with GBD 5.0. So, I'm
going to be using the same prompt for
each lodge language model and see how it
writes the hook, the opening sections,
and ultimately whether the fleshed out
script is actually better and which one
does it best. So, the prompt I'm going
to use starts with, you are YouTube
script writer with 10 years of
experience. We're going to assign it a
role and then I'm going to tell it I'm
making a video titled how to script a
killer YouTube video. I now need to
develop a detailed section by section
blueprint that will form the foundation
of my script. I give instructions on the
hook, instructions on how to write the
section by section, how to write
transitions, and the visual support
framework. Now, let's see what it gives
us. So, here we can see it wrote a
couple hook approaches, shocking
statement plus curiosity, one killer
YouTube video could completely change
your life, bold claim that sparks
disbelief, promises proof, and a
blueprint for replicating viral success.
Transition: I've spent the past 5 months
dissecting the scripts behind millions
of views. Today, I'll show you the exact
process to script a video that gets
clicked, watched, and shared. Second
one, if your videos aren't getting
views, it's probably not a thumbnail,
it's your script. So, this one's not as
good as the first one. 70% of your video
success is decided before you even press
record. Today, I'm going to walk you
through my proven script writing system,
the same one that's helped channels at
hundreds of thousands of subscribers.
So, actually, the hooks are not bad,
especially for this first one and for
this third hook. And of course, it took
the different hook approaches uh based
on the script writing guide that I fed
it. Now, let's see what it gives us for
the section by section breakdown. Starts
with Y script at all, right? Video
satisfaction is the number one metric.
Scripts boost information clarity,
entertainment value, and emotional
impact. Saves time in filming and
editing. Alex Mozi example. Okay. Start
with the title and idea. Crafting the
hook, writing the body, crafting the
outro and call to action, editing your
script and visual support framework,
which is actually not that bad of an
outline. It actually performed a lot
better than I'd expected to. This is a
solid outline that you can use and turn
into a full script. It even gives you
the duration. It gives you a closing
transition from section to section and
it follows the instructions pretty well.
Now let's try the same prompt on claude
and see the main differences that it
gives us. So you can see here hook
approach a authority plus promise. In
the last 9 months I've written YouTube
scores for 40 plus educational channels
helped them gain millions of views and
generate millions in revenue. One of my
clients went from 5,000 to 16,000
subscribers in just 5 months. But here's
what most people don't realize about
YouTube success. This first line is
actually really really strong. But this
second line in terms of proof isn't that
great. You can see over here, hook
approach B. One killer YouTube script
can completely change your life. It can
give you the momentum to go from zero to
100K subscribers in record-breaking
time. Just like many of your favorite
creators who became successful because
of one viral video. It's actually not
too bad, too. Most YouTubers spend 80%
of their time on filming and editing and
only 20% on the script. But the top
creators do the exact opposite. And
there's a reason why Alex Mosy said he
now spends four weeks on research
instead of four weeks on editing. I
don't really like how they just brought
in Alex Mosy out of nowhere. This video
isn't on Alexi. So, let's look over
here. Section by section breakdown. Why
scripting actually matters. You see
here, four types of YouTube videos,
right? Viral VSSLs, story videos,
challenge videos, documentary videos,
outline theory for video ideas. Okay,
not as good. The hook formula that never
fails. Next section will be open loop a
body structure, and then it goes to the
call to action formula. So, this outline
isn't actually as good because the video
title is how to script a killer YouTube
video. And really what I'm looking for
in the first couple sections is to
validate the click immediately. So I say
why scripting matters and then we
randomly talk about the four different
types of YouTube videos. This isn't
information that the viewer necessarily
needs in order to understand how to
write a killer YouTube script or outline
theory isn't something that they need to
understand in order to write a killer
YouTube script. So actually this outline
isn't as good. So so far GP5 is better
than Claude. Let's see what notebook LM
gives us. So once again, I uploaded the
course and has kind of a summary and
we'll give it the same prompt and see
what it gives us. Okay, let's look at
some of the hooks that notebook elements
came up for us. So transformation
question hook. Have you ever wondered
what makes certain YouTube videos
explode with millions of views while
others with seemingly great content
barely get watched? Okay, transition.
Today, I'm pulling back the curtain on
the single most overlooked factor behind
YouTube success, the script. By the end
of this video, you'll have everything
you need to write a killer YouTube
script that gets you millions of views
in just half the time, just like I've
done for over 40 channels. Okay, let's
see. Hook two in the last 9 months. This
credibility approach again and it only
gave me two approaches for the hooks.
And even just looking at this very first
hook, this does feel more GPT. It
doesn't really feel like it followed any
of the guidelines, especially since the
opening line doesn't validate the click
of how to make a killer YouTube script.
So no book LM isn't doing that great of
a job at writing hook so far. Let's look
at the section by section. So you can
see section one, the unseen power, why
scripting is a non-negotiable, and then
it writes a specific transition for
this. Section two, the foundation idea
in the title first. And then we go into
mastering the market, researching for
impact. Okay? And then it has some of
that information. Section four, crafting
an irresistible hook. And then it gives
certain examples based on this and
transition. And then section five, which
is structuring your video, the body
section. And section six, you can see
the final push, driving action, and
growth, outro, and call to action. But
you can see over here, one thing that
stands out from the notebook LM output
is that it's a lot longer and it's a lot
more detailed. It even gives specific
sources on where it took the information
for each of these points. But one thing
that really stands out in terms of the
writing is that the writing is a lot
more complex. It talks about mastering
the market, researching for impact or
for point one, its title is the unseen
power, why scripting is a
non-negotiable. You can see all of those
are pretty big words and generally when
we're writing for YouTube videos or
creative writing in general, we want to
keep the language pretty simple so that
the audience can understand it. So, so
far in terms of writing hooks and the
section bysection outline, GPD5 actually
outperforms because the structure is a
lot more closer to what I would actually
write in a YouTube script and the hooks
are a lot more punchy and a lot
stronger. Now, let's test the actual
writing of each of these models. Now,
I'm going to go back to the same chat
for Chad GBD5 and I'm going to use this
prompt. Now, I need to develop a main
body sections for my YouTube videos. I
want to transform my outline into an
engaging value script that maintains
viewer retention. I give it instructions
on how to write the section introduction
and the main point setup. I give it my
why, what, how, writing framework, which
is setting the stakes, presenting the
solution, providing proof. I teach it
some engagement dynamics to make the
script actually interesting and how to
create momentum, visual support, some
conversational elements and maintaining
flow and how to write the section
conclusion and the transition just to
give it a little bit of fuel. And I
really want to test how good it is in
terms of following these specific
instructions. And the reason these
prompts are so comprehensive is because
I also want to test whether GBT is great
at following the instructions that I
give it. So, let's see what it comes up
with. And immediately, you can see how
fast GPT5 is. So, let's read the first
section of how it writes it. Here's
something most people completely miss
when they wonder why their videos aren't
taking off. It has nothing to do with
your editing software, your camera gear,
or how often you post. It's about
something that happens before you hit
record. That's a pretty good open loop
because there's some sort of curiosity
here. Right now, there are two types of
creators on YouTube. One group spends
hours filming, improvising, and hoping
something sticks. The other group, they
step in front of the camera with a plan
so tight, it feels effortless, like the
video is meant to go viral. The
difference, they understand how
scripting drives viewer satisfaction,
YouTube's single most important element.
And then there's the why, what, how. You
can see it follows the exact framework.
Getting this wrong means you'll spend
weeks cranking out videos that quietly
sink into YouTube's graveyard. But nail
it. Suddenly, you've got people watching
longer, commenting more, and sharing
your videos with their friends. And
YouTube algorithms take notice. The what
is scripting? Whether it's full word for
word or bullet point planning isn't
about sounding robotic. It's about
making sure every second of your video
moves the story forward and keeps
viewers locked in. And how proof take
the instantly AI channel where they
started scripting strategically. Their
attention shot up and they added
thousands of paying users from just a
handful of videos. One script alone
generated six figures in revenue. And
it's not just them. Alex Mosi spent more
time on pre-production and scripting
than editing because he knows that's
where the leverage is. In terms of this,
the how section is kind of shaky because
the examples here instantly AI isn't
something that everyone knows. Yes, it's
part of the case studies that I have,
but it's not necessarily an example
that's broad appeal and that everyone
can uses. So, that's minus points for
GBD5. But actually, the writing is
pretty good and it produces the outline
super duper fast. Now, let's test the
exact same prompt on Claude. So, now you
can see Claude is a little bit slower in
terms of giving out this output. But
let's read the first section. Why
scripting actually matters. Here's
something that completely blew my mind
when I first discovered it. Most
creators think YouTube success is about
fancy cameras, perfect lighting, or even
going viral. But after writing scripts
for 40 plus channels and seeing the data
behind millions of views, I realized
there's something more fundamental that
separates the creators getting 100 views
from those getting 100,000 views. They
are essentially two types of content
creators right now. The first group
films first, thinks later. They set up
the camera, hit record, and hope
something magical happens in
post-production. They're spending 80% of
their time editing and only 20% planning
what they actually want to say. Then
there's a second group. These creators
seem to have cracked some secret code.
Their videos just work. People watch
them all the way through. Comments
explode. Subscribers pour in. And here's
the crazy part. Their production quality
isn't necessarily better. The
difference, they understand that YouTube
isn't actually a video platform. It's a
retention platform. So you can see here
the payoff here isn't doesn't feel as
strong as GPT5. So that's minus points
for Claude. Plus, you can see kind of
the core differences here. You can see
that GBT writes it very systematically,
right? It writes a transition and then
it scenario and contra setups. Why,
what, how? So, it presents to you
exactly how it writes it. Worst cla kind
of dumps it all in you. And it doesn't
feel like it's necessarily following the
structure. Now, let's try the same
prompt for notebook LM. Okay. So, now
looking at the notebook LM output here,
video body section one, idea, title, and
thumbnail. So, I'm kind of confused why
it gave us the idea, title, and
thumbnail as section one because in
section one, you can see over here the
topic is why scripting is a
non-negotiable. And then you can see it
kind of shifts towards instead talking
about idea, title, and thumbnail. But
let's kind of just look at the writing.
But here's something most people
completely miss. And it's the very first
step to crafting a video that truly
explodes on YouTube. I don't really say
truly explodes. What I'm about to share
might seem counterintuitive at first,
especially if you're just used to
hitting record and figuring things out
later. I don't even really like this
initial uh this initial part here
because hitting record and figuring
things out later that might not actually
resonate for most of the audience.
Whereas you can see kind of the open
loop and transitions that GBD5 or even
Claude wrote was kind of more broad
appeal. So if you're not necessarily
hitting record and figuring things out
later, then this video might alienate
that portion of the audience. See, there
are two types of content creators right
now. One group is constantly pushing out
content week after week hoping to
overwhelm the YouTube algorithm with
sure volume. They'll set up their
camera, hit film, talk for 10 minutes,
post, and on to the next video. It
usually results in the video doing all
right. The other group, however, takes
time, spend weeks, even months,
meticulously crafting something
spectacular before they even think about
filming. Right? This is actually pretty
good. But the problem is number one, the
main point is totally wrong. And number
two, it's actually taking my script from
how to make a killer YouTube video. That
is the very first video that I posted on
this channel. And it's taking the exact
same script and just giving it back to
me. So, it's not doing any kind of
creative thinking. Honestly, I didn't
even feed it the transcript of that
specific video. But you can see that
it's just taking from that, which isn't
super helpful when you're trying to
create a completely new video. So, right
now, my initial diagnosis is that Chach5
is actually the best in terms of writing
these long- form scripts by giving it
information on number one, how to write
a YouTube script, and then asking it to
write a hook, the outline, and fleshing
out the script. actually gives you a
better base because the outline is a lot
stronger and the writing is actually a
lot more in my voice and you can see
it's a lot more structured. But even
though Chai GPD 5.0 is best for writing
educational scripts, but what about for
storytelling documentaries? So for
writing documentary scripts, I'm going
to use a slightly different prompt and
I'll kind of explain the prompt. So it
first starts off with you're a YouTube
script writer with 10 years of
experience. I'm writing the hook,
opening section, and the section by
section outline for my documentary
titled The Rise and Fall and Rise Again
of Elon Musk. So, I want to write a
documentary about Elon Musk. There's
plenty of information out there on him.
So, it should do pretty well. And in
terms of the hook framework that I give
it, I tell it to write in chunks. So, I
write the first chunk, the second chunk,
the third chunk, and the fourth chunk
here. Right? With each chunk having a
specific purpose in the hook because the
hook for writing documentaries is a
little bit different from writing hooks
for educational videos. And then I give
it certain information on certain
guidelines to follow and I want the
story to follow a hero's journey. So
let's see how a ch5 performs. And
immediately you can see once again it's
pretty fast and super interestingly for
each specific chunk that I tell it to
write. It says option one shocking
statement in 2008 Elon Musk was broke
sleeping on a friend's couch. And it
gives me option two and it gives me
option three and it gives me specific
visuals in the bridge which I asked it
to and it writes an option for the
second chunk and then the third chunk
and the fourth chunk and it gives me
specific visuals for that which is super
interesting because it writes three
variations of the very first line and
that might be because it understands
that the first line of a YouTube video
is actually the most important. So let's
see what is actually any good. He's been
called a genius, a fraud, a savior, and
a villain sometimes all in the same
week. This is a story of how Elon Musk
fell from grace and rose again. His
journey isn't just about rockets and
electric cars. It's about risking
everything over and over. Every time
Musk reached the top, something or
someone tried to take him down. In the
mid200s, Musk was a Silicon Valley
millionaire turned near bankruptc. He
just pour his PayPal fortune into Tesla
and SpaceX. Two companies most investors
thought would fail. And when the money
ran out, there was only one last shot.
What happened next didn't just save
Musk, it redefined what was possible in
tech, energy, and space. But success is
never permanent. From public scandals to
a 44 billion social media gamble, Mus
Empire will be tested like never before.
And what he did next might just be his
most audacious move yet. Title card.
Here it gives me title card and then it
gives me a section by section outline.
Nothing super fleshed out in terms of
the section bysection outline, but I
would say that the first 60 to 90
seconds was actually pretty good. Now I
want to see how Claude does. Once again,
paste in the same prompt and let's see
what it gives us. So, interestingly
enough, Claude also gave me three
options in terms of the very first line.
And let's see the complete hook. Three
times Elon Musk has stood on the edge of
complete financial ruin. Three times he
clawed his way back up to the top. But
his latest gamble wasn't about electric
cars or space exploration. It was about
something far more dangerous. The power
to control human conversation itself.
With within 24 hours of taking control,
he'd fire half the company. Within a
week, advertisers were fleeing. The
platform that once shaped elections and
revolutions was hemorrhaging $4 million
a day. This is the story of a man who
refuses to accept the word impossible.
Who built the world's most valuable car
company without knowing how to make
cars. who created a private space
program from his living room and who bet
everything he built on a 15-year-old
social media platform. But this time was
different. This time it wasn't just his
fortune on the line. It was his legacy.
So this hook on the surface actually
looks okay. But even just reading it,
you can see that some of the words are
even bigger. Hemorrhaging shaped
elections and revolution. Some of the
words are bigger and harder to say kind
of on a voice over and it's not as
simple for the viewer to digest. And you
can see here it takes the control angle
and firing half the company and the
story of Twitter as part of a big chunk
of the hook. But I don't personally
think that is the most interesting part
of the story. And I would have actually
used some of the earlier parts of his
story inside the hook like GBD5 did. But
so far I'm not super impressed with what
Claude has given me. But for the section
by section outline you can see okay it
gives me chapter 1, chapter 2, chapter
3, act two, chapter four, chapter 5,
chapter 6, chapter 7 and act three the
fall. Chapter eight, production hell.
Chapter nine, the breakdown. Chapter 10,
market manipulation. Chapter 11, Acts 4.
Chapter 12. Chapter 13. Chapter 14.
Chapter 15. 16. 17. And you can see that
it's a lot more longer, which I actually
think is a lot more impressive and it
does a better job at doing that compared
to GBD5. So, so far, Hook GD5 is
actually winning, but Claude is actually
winning in terms of how detailed the
outline has been in terms of following
the hero's journey and the five act
structure. Now, let's use the same
prompt for notebook element and see what
it gives us. Man, nobookm is awfully
slow compared to Claude and GPT. Okay,
so let's read what notebook has given
us. Option one, he built rockets to Mars
and revolutionize electric cars. But in
the depths of controversy, many believed
his empire was over. The question wasn't
if he'd fall, but how spectacularly?
Option two, what does it take to lose
billions in a single day and public
humilation and still emerge to redefine
the future? For Ilo Musk, it was just
another Tuesday. Option three, for
visionary outcast to the brink of
bankruptcy to a titan shaping humanity's
destiny. This isn't just a biography.
It's a raw unfiltered journey through
the meteoric highs and near fatal
crashes of Elon Musk. So, you can see
here this first chunk is 0 to 8 seconds.
But even as I'm reading each of these
sections, it feels like it's closer to
like 15 seconds probably. And these
sections are super duper long. And the
same problem kind of emerges that we see
in the first demonstration of notebook
LM. It's that the words are really
complicated, right? And your public
humiliation, redefine the future. uh
here, destiny, biography, unfiltered
journey, meteoric highs, and near fatal
crashes. All of these words are pretty
big and generally words that I want to
avoid when I'm writing an educational
script. But you can see here, notebook
element does actually a pretty good job
at writing the section by section
outline. It's pretty in-depth. Part one,
part two, part three, right? The scent,
disruption, and dream building. Part
five, the fall crisis and controversy,
public controversies, the setbacks, the
resurgence, and exot Twitter saga,
demand in the mission, a deeper look.
and it does a lot more in-depth deep
dive just like Claw did. Now, let's see
how each of these models do when it
comes to fleshing out the script. So,
I'm going to use this prompt. Now, I
developed the main body sections of for
my documentary, the rise and falling
rise again of Elon Musk. Transform my
outline into script that balances
technical explanation with engaging
storytelling, maintaining viewer
retention while delivering key
information. So I give it some
information, background and context,
main narrative sections, technical
elements, execution and impact, tension
and engagement techniques and visual
integration points among other
instructions. So let's see what GPD5
gives us. And once again, GP5 is pretty
fast. You can see over here, right? It
gives us the narrator of voice over,
gives us a specific cues right in each
specific section. And it really gives us
a specific stock footage that, you know,
it thinks that we should be using. And
interestingly enough, it doesn't flesh
out the full script. It just gives the
first main body section. Now I want to
see how good it is at actually writing
the script and whether it's actually
something a human would write. In 1995
offic in Canada and at the University of
Pennsylvania must move to Silicon
Valley. The docom boom was in full
swing. His first company Zip 2 provided
maps and business directories to
newspapers years before Google maps was
even an idea. That sale made him a
millionaire but more importantly it gave
him capital and it tech capital is
oxygen. Without it your big idea
suffocate with it you can take a risk
that others won't. must next bet X.com
wasn't just another online bank. Imagine
trying to send money across country in
the 90s. It was like mailing cash in an
envelope and hoping it arrived. X.com
aimed to change that instantly, securely
anywhere. And at first glance, there's
actually like nothing wrong with the
with this script. But it must be noted
that oh, it rides it in section by
section. It looks like the output for
GPD5 isn't as long as Claude and
Notebook LM because the outputs in
general for GPD5 is a lot lower. So that
means the context window is still
similar to GPD4. That's why it
potentially isn't as great at writing
super duper long form scripts. Now let's
test the same prompt on Claude. So let's
just read it real quick to understand
how Elon Musk became the most polarizing
figure of all time. We need to go back
to where it all began. Not in Silicon
Valleys or Tesla factories, but in the
suburbs of Pritoria, where a 9-year-old
boy was teaching himself computer
programming. 1980, while most kids his
age were playing with toys, Elon Musk
was really obsessed with the future.
He'd read science fiction novels cover
to cover. They immediately start again.
Isaac Asimov, Robert Heinlane, Arthur C.
Clark. These weren't just stories to
him. They were blueprints. But genius
and childhood comes with a price. Elon
was relentlessly bullied at school. Once
a group of kids trimmed down a flight of
stairs and beat him unconscious, he
spent two weeks in the hospital. So
here, I actually prefer kind of the
outline that Claude gives because it
starts from the very beginning of Elon
Musk's story, which generally is the aim
with these documentary stories. So I
actually like this quite a little bit
better. And you can see the outline is
actually a lot a lot more fleshed out
just from a single prompt. And you can
see it's still going and still going. So
it's pretty much just going to write the
whole script in one prompt. Whereas with
GPT, you have to prompt it multiple
times. And for Notebook LM, let me read
a brief section of it. From the chaotic
early days of Silicon Valley to the
boundless expanse of space, one figure
has consistently defied convention,
ignited industries, and provoked
controversy. Elon Musk. pro we delve
into his dizzying heights and
precipitous falls that define his
journey. It's crucial to understand the
landscape he inherited and audacious
vision that set him apart. So once again
not a big fan of notebook LLM because
you can see that the writing isn't super
simple. You can see that the writing is
using very very big words and it's
really really hard to follow. So in
terms of writing scripts I would say GPD
5.0 is a clear winner for writing
educational scripts because the hooks
are punchy and the structure of the
script is actually following a logical
sequence for what a YouTube video that I
would write be and the actual writing of
GPD 5.0 seems to be more in my voice
compared to Claude and Notebook LM. And
for writing documentary scripts, GBD5 is
a lot closer in terms of writing
engaging hooks. But for writing the
actual body of the script, Claude is a
lot more efficient and also a lot more
accurate because its context window is a
lot bigger. So the output can be a lot
longer. It can be thousands and
thousands and thousands of words.
Whereas seems like GPT is limited just
like its previous models. And for
Notebook LM seems like the writing is
still over complicated. It's using
really big words. And I honestly
wouldn't really touch notebook LM in
terms of writing scripts. And also as a
side note, just playing with these three
different models, I can see that GPD5 is
a lot faster. The processing speed is a
lot faster, whereas Claw takes a little
bit of time to think, and Notebook LM is
really the slowest in terms of giving me
outputs. Plus, the input window in terms
of how long the prompt is for Notebook
LM is limited. I'm curious to hear what
you guys think in terms of what models
is the best for YouTube script writing.
Comment down below on which model you
think is the best. And if you want the
specific prompts that I use in this
video for writing educational scripts
and documentaries, click the link in the
description and I'll send it to you.